[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: Now I mentioned that
there's a lot more details that you wanna
handle when an incoming
request is coming in.
There's a lot more details to it
than just responding on the end.
The first one that I wanna point out
is that we can control the headers that
go back out in the response.
So we can write the header,
we can say writeHead, and
the first parameter that
we pass is a status code.
Since this is a success condition,
we would wanna pass the 200
status code most likely.
But you can, of course,
pass other status codes, and
we can also optionally pass
other response headers.
In this particular case, I wanna
pass the content type of text/plain.
>> Kyle Simpson: And just to
show you that these
are in fact real streams,
we could do the Hello World,
>> Kyle Simpson: In a write statement,
and the end statement would be just
the Math.random.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
the response stream that we got is
a stream that we can add stuff to.
We start up our server.
We restart.
Oops, I threw some error, what did I do?
I forgot, it's not gonna coerce this for
us, so we need to coerce it ourselves.
So the best way to do that, simplest
straightforward way to do it is to call to
string on the number.
>> Kyle Simpson: All right,
now, just to prove to ourselves
that that's actually happening,
we can look at the network requests for
this,
and we can see that the content
type was in fact text point.
>> Kyle Simpson: All right, the next thing
that we wanna handle is that not
all requests are made equal.
We don't always gonna respond to
all requests that are coming in.
And so, we have this idea of routing
requests to different handlers,
and some requests,
we're not gonna handle at all.
Now there are lots of frameworks out
there, and I could spend days and
days teaching about express and
connect and
every other kind of middle
framework that's out there.
But there's already
tons of great books and
blog posts and
all kinds of great free content on that.
So rather than us spending our time
re treading stuff that's easy for
you to read about, I'm gonna show you,
again in the spirit of everything that
we've been doing, just the core level of
how you write this stuff yourself without
needing one of those frameworks to do it.
So the first thing that we can know about
is that we've got a request stream,
which is gonna give us some
properties about the request.
For example,
it can tell us req.method, and
it will be a GET if it was a get request.
Okay, now if it's not a GET request,
if it's a post or a head or
whatever, we don't wanna respond.
Or we don't wanna respond with the proper
thing, so the other way of doing that is
for us to say if it wasn't one of those
wrecked up methods that we understand.
Let's respond,
>> Kyle Simpson: With a 403.
>> Kyle Simpson: You don't have to put
that Get outta here part,
that's just me being funny.
[COUGH] But this is gonna
return a 403 forbidden, okay?
Now it's not all that easy for
me to test that part, but
we can test this in just another moment.
Now let's say,
what if we don't wanna handle
anything other than the plain
old root slash requests?
Like if you ask for their path things,
we don't wanna handle those.
So the other thing that we
can do is look at req.url.
If it is the plain old normal slash,
then we wanna handle
it.
>> Kyle Simpson: Otherwise,
we wanna return our 403 forbidden.
>> Kyle Simpson: Is everybody with me so
far?
>> Kyle Simpson: For those of you
that are on the live stream, if you
can just speak up and let us know if
you're following along, if we're going too
fast or too slow, or something like that.
I'd just love to know,
make sure since I can't get your feedback,
I'd love to know that online, just give
me those thumbs up or smiley faces to let
me know that you're following along and
that things are working for you as well.
But here, I'm showing you the beginnings
of writing your own sort of routing logic.
And there are literally a billion
different ways that you could write your
own routing logic.
You can do them with IF statements,
you can do them with switch statements,
you could have a configuration JSON
file that you load into some middleware.
You could go the Ruby on Rails
approach with things like Connect and
Express that are very Ruby in style,
Rails in style.
I mean, there's all kinds of different
ways for you to set up your routing.
The point is I just wanted to show you
that it's really just a question of
what was that incoming URL matching it and
telling it to do something.
So if, for instance,
you were using Express, I believe you have
an app variable or whatever you call
it that represents your application.
And you listen for GET requests at
the slash, and you call some function,
so the way you do it with Express,
I believe,
looks a lot like.
>> Kyle Simpson: Because you get a req and
a res, and I think you get
some other parameters too, but
that's what it might look
like if you're using Express.
You can notice that it's
basically the same thing.
It's just some sugar wrapped around an if
statement essentially.
>> Speaker 2: Hey,
Kyle.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: James L wanted to ask at
some point if you had
a favorite framework.
>> Kyle Simpson: James, can you clarify if
you mean favorite middleware framework,
like what we've been talking about here,
or do you mean JavaScript framework in
general, like the backbones and angulars?
>> Speaker 2: I think he meant middleware
frameworks, something like Express.
>> Kyle Simpson: I don't use any of
those middleware frameworks because the
middle end architecture that I refer to
is simple enough that I write
the if statements for myself.
But if I were going to
turn to a middleware,
I'd probably start with Express
cuz it's several orders of
magnitude more popular than any
other one that I've ever heard of.